README.md, before:


# Motorway UI Test

Welcome to the Motorway UI technical test, focusing on user experience, HTML, CSS, a11y, and leveraging browser APIs.


## Set up

This repo is a Vite app with simple Express server which serves a JSON feed of cars and tags associated.

- Clone the repo and run `npm install`

- `npm run dev` will run both - express server and react app.

Afterward, the React app will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`, and the Express server at `http://localhost:8000/`.

There are two endpoints available:
 * http://localhost:8000/api/tags - to return all tags in
 * http://localhost:8000/api/tags?tag=ferrari - to return matching tags
 * http://localhost:8000/api/cars - to return all cars
 * http://localhost:8000/api/cars?tag=ferrari - to return matching cars


### Prerequisites 

- Prepare a folder for the live coding challenge.
- Minimum Node version: 18

### Note

- Both the server and React app watch relevant files and hot reload on changes.
- Feel free to modify or install necessary code. If installing packages that are wrappers for native browser APIs, please leave a comment explaining why.


## Tasks - Take home challenge (2 hours)

 We appreciate that your time is valuable and recommend you not spend more than 2 hours on these tasks. Focusing on one small thing well or a bigger scope as a proof of concept, both approaches are valid.

### 1. Realtime search
We have an tags api endpoint at `http://localhost:8000/api/tags` which returns an array of all tags available in the format:

```
  [
    "white car",
    "car",
    "orange car",
    "orange",
    "lamborghini",
    "super-car",
    "black car",
    "mercedes-benz",
    "aventador",
  ]
```

By adding a `tag` query the endpoint will return an array of matching tags `http://localhost:8000/tags?tag=re`:

```
  [
    "red car",
    "red",
  ]
```

#### Outcomes
To have a type ahead search functionality like [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/ideas/) which can query the above API and return selectable results.
- Display tags available in a form of dropdown
- Allow available tags to be selected
- Performant fast results
- The dataset is static but **assuming** it could be dynamic would be beneficial
- **Not exposing the whole dataset** would be beneficial

### 2. Realtime search results
Once task one has been completed, when a user selects a tag, another call to `api/cars` endpoint needs to be made to display the result in some UI (similar to [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/search/pins/?q=red%20car&rs=typed)) The more interesting or unique the better, examples could be but not limited too a11y, animation, image optimization, semantic markup, schemas, WebGL. _Again, we appreciate that all of them can't be achieved in two hours and we don't expect to you to cover most of them, let alone all of them._

We have cars api endpoint available at `http://localhost:8000/api/cars` which returns array of all cars available in following format:

```
[
  {
    "id": "m3m-lnR90uM",
    "created_at": "2017-04-14T00:59:12-04:00",
    "updated_at": "2020-04-14T01:05:34-04:00",
    "color": "#E0E4EF",
    "description": "I shot this while doing a job for a luxury automotive storage facility in Baltimore, MD. I wanted to create an ominous sense of intrigue, giving the feeling of a space that was both expansive and enclosed. I enjoy the journey my eyes take from the focal point of the headlamps to the contours of the Camero’s body, and then to the backdrop of stacked automobiles.",
    "alt_description": "white car",
    "tags": ["white", "white car", "car"],
    "likes": 995,
    "user": {
      "id": "9aTMQdp_Djo",
      "updated_at": "2020-04-20T01:34:56-04:00",
      "username": "peterbroomfield",
      "name": "Peter Broomfield",
      "first_name": "Peter",
      "last_name": "Broomfield",
      "bio": "Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody.",
      "location": "Baltimore, MD",
      "profile_image": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/avatars/warmachine",
      "total_collections": 36,
      "total_likes": 126,
      "total_photos": 1
    },
    "url": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/car-images/m3m-lnR90uM"
  }
  ...
]
```

By adding a `tag` query the endpoint will return an array of matching cars `http://localhost:8000/cars?tag=red`

```
[
  {
    "id": "3akA0XDg1_g",
    "created_at": "2018-02-07T04:02:51-05:00",
    "updated_at": "2020-04-14T01:11:57-04:00",
    "color": "#EEEBE9",
    "description": null,
    "alt_description": "red Ferrari car",
    "tags": ["red car", "red", "ferrari", "car"],
    "likes": 346,
    "user": {
      "id": "ue4EPaEkN5w",
      "updated_at": "2020-04-19T03:59:05-04:00",
      "username": "antoniolio",
      "name": "Matt Antonioli",
      "first_name": "Matt",
      "last_name": "Antonioli",
      "bio": "Besides, you look good in a dress.",
      "location": "Houston, TX",
      "profile_image": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/avatars/ironman",
      "total_collections": 1,
      "total_likes": 186,
      "total_photos": 58
    },
    "url": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/car-images/3akA0XDg1_g"
  },
  ...
]
```

## Designs

Use the provided Figma designs as a visual guide for implementing the app layout, styles, and elements.

Figma: https://www.figma.com/file/AQ6dwlbpusgQzBpJyAqcVq/Recruitment?type=design&node-id=0-1&mode=design&t=5ICSMjEzDNgfOBVg-0
Password: Motorway

## Notes

The goal of the test is to prove your understanding of the concepts of modern HTML/CSS/JS, but not to produce something production ready or pixel perfect.
Your work will be tested in the browser of your choice, so please specify this when submitting. This can include pre-release browsers such as Chrome Canary or Safari Technology Preview if you want to work with experimental features.

Commit message:

feat: add readme section about image extensions

README.md, after:


# Motorway UI Test

Welcome to the Motorway UI technical test, focusing on user experience, HTML, CSS, a11y, and leveraging browser APIs.


## Set up

This repo is a Vite app with simple Express server which serves a JSON feed of cars and tags associated.

- Clone the repo and run `npm install`

- `npm run dev` will run both - express server and react app.

Afterward, the React app will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`, and the Express server at `http://localhost:8000/`.

There are two endpoints available:
 * http://localhost:8000/api/tags - to return all tags in
 * http://localhost:8000/api/tags?tag=ferrari - to return matching tags
 * http://localhost:8000/api/cars - to return all cars
 * http://localhost:8000/api/cars?tag=ferrari - to return matching cars


### Prerequisites 

- Prepare a folder for the live coding challenge.
- Minimum Node version: 18

### Note

- Both the server and React app watch relevant files and hot reload on changes.
- Feel free to modify or install necessary code. If installing packages that are wrappers for native browser APIs, please leave a comment explaining why.


## Tasks - Take home challenge (2 hours)

 We appreciate that your time is valuable and recommend you not spend more than 2 hours on these tasks. Focusing on one small thing well or a bigger scope as a proof of concept, both approaches are valid.

### 1. Realtime search
We have an tags api endpoint at `http://localhost:8000/api/tags` which returns an array of all tags available in the format:

```
  [
    "white car",
    "car",
    "orange car",
    "orange",
    "lamborghini",
    "super-car",
    "black car",
    "mercedes-benz",
    "aventador",
  ]
```

By adding a `tag` query the endpoint will return an array of matching tags `http://localhost:8000/tags?tag=re`:

```
  [
    "red car",
    "red",
  ]
```

#### Outcomes
To have a type ahead search functionality like [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/ideas/) which can query the above API and return selectable results.
- Display tags available in a form of dropdown
- Allow available tags to be selected
- Performant fast results
- The dataset is static but **assuming** it could be dynamic would be beneficial
- **Not exposing the whole dataset** would be beneficial

### 2. Realtime search results
Once task one has been completed, when a user selects a tag, another call to `api/cars` endpoint needs to be made to display the result in some UI (similar to [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.co.uk/search/pins/?q=red%20car&rs=typed)) The more interesting or unique the better, examples could be but not limited too a11y, animation, image optimization, semantic markup, schemas, WebGL. _Again, we appreciate that all of them can't be achieved in two hours and we don't expect to you to cover most of them, let alone all of them._

We have cars api endpoint available at `http://localhost:8000/api/cars` which returns array of all cars available in following format:

```
[
  {
    "id": "m3m-lnR90uM",
    "created_at": "2017-04-14T00:59:12-04:00",
    "updated_at": "2020-04-14T01:05:34-04:00",
    "color": "#E0E4EF",
    "description": "I shot this while doing a job for a luxury automotive storage facility in Baltimore, MD. I wanted to create an ominous sense of intrigue, giving the feeling of a space that was both expansive and enclosed. I enjoy the journey my eyes take from the focal point of the headlamps to the contours of the Camero’s body, and then to the backdrop of stacked automobiles.",
    "alt_description": "white car",
    "tags": ["white", "white car", "car"],
    "likes": 995,
    "user": {
      "id": "9aTMQdp_Djo",
      "updated_at": "2020-04-20T01:34:56-04:00",
      "username": "peterbroomfield",
      "name": "Peter Broomfield",
      "first_name": "Peter",
      "last_name": "Broomfield",
      "bio": "Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody.",
      "location": "Baltimore, MD",
      "profile_image": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/avatars/warmachine",
      "total_collections": 36,
      "total_likes": 126,
      "total_photos": 1
    },
    "url": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/car-images/m3m-lnR90uM"
  }
  ...
]
```

By adding a `tag` query the endpoint will return an array of matching cars `http://localhost:8000/cars?tag=red`

```
[
  {
    "id": "3akA0XDg1_g",
    "created_at": "2018-02-07T04:02:51-05:00",
    "updated_at": "2020-04-14T01:11:57-04:00",
    "color": "#EEEBE9",
    "description": null,
    "alt_description": "red Ferrari car",
    "tags": ["red car", "red", "ferrari", "car"],
    "likes": 346,
    "user": {
      "id": "ue4EPaEkN5w",
      "updated_at": "2020-04-19T03:59:05-04:00",
      "username": "antoniolio",
      "name": "Matt Antonioli",
      "first_name": "Matt",
      "last_name": "Antonioli",
      "bio": "Besides, you look good in a dress.",
      "location": "Houston, TX",
      "profile_image": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/avatars/ironman",
      "total_collections": 1,
      "total_likes": 186,
      "total_photos": 58
    },
    "url": "https://motorway-ui-test.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/car-images/3akA0XDg1_g"
  },
  ...
]
```

#### Images

Use `.jpg` (JPEG) or `.webp` (WebP) file extensions when referencing images. 

The image links from the responses have excluded file extension. This design is intentional to offer flexibility in the choice of image formats while maintaining a consistent and clean URL structure.


## Designs

Use the provided Figma designs as a visual guide for implementing the app layout, styles, and elements.

Figma: https://www.figma.com/file/AQ6dwlbpusgQzBpJyAqcVq/Recruitment?type=design&node-id=0-1&mode=design&t=5ICSMjEzDNgfOBVg-0
Password: Motorway

## Notes

The goal of the test is to prove your understanding of the concepts of modern HTML/CSS/JS, but not to produce something production ready or pixel perfect.
Your work will be tested in the browser of your choice, so please specify this when submitting. This can include pre-release browsers such as Chrome Canary or Safari Technology Preview if you want to work with experimental features.
